# Project2Java
The second programming project involves writing a program that examines a file of polynomials and determines whether the polynomials in that file are in strictly ascending order using two different methods of comparison. 
Each line of the input file will contain one polynomial. On each line will be the terms of the polynomial. Each term will be represented as a pair of values. 
The first element of that pairis a real value that represents thecoefficient and the second an integer value, which is its corresponding exponent. 
For example, 5.63 4 1 8.30 represents the polynomial 5.6x3+ 4x+ 8.3. They are intended tobe written from the highest exponent to the lowest, but ensuring that is true 
is a program requirement. Exponents with zero coefficients will be omittedThe program for this project should consist of fourouter classes. 
The Polynomialclass is the first of those four. Instances of the Polynomialclass should define an individual polynomial.Polynomialobjects should be represented internally by a singly linked list. Each node of that linked list should contain one term of the polynomial consisting of its coefficient and exponent. 
You are not permitted to use the predefined Java LinkedListclass, but instead must create the nodes of the linked list as instances of a static nested class inside the Polynomialclass. The Polynomialclass must implement both the Iterable and Comparable interfaces.
It must have fourpublic methods. 

1.  A constructor that accepts a string that definesone polynomialin the same format as provided in the input file. 
2. A  compare To method that compares two polynomials. If the two polynomials have different highest order exponents,the one with the highest exponent is the greatest. If their highest exponents are the same,their coefficients are compared. If two polynomials have the same highest order exponent with the same coefficients 
the next highest exponent is examined,andso on.
3. An iteratormethod that produces an iterator the iterates across the terms of the polynomial from highest exponent to lowest and returns and an object that contains only the coefficient and exponent of the next term.
4. A to String method that converts a polynomial to a string. Terms with 0 coefficients should be omitted entirely. The exponent of the term with an exponent of 1 should omit the exponent and the term with exponent 0 should omit the variable xas well. As an example, the polynomial “5.63418.30” should be converted to the following string "5.6x^3 + 4x + 8.3".
The secondclass is InvalidPolynomialSyntax, which defines an unchecked exception that contains a constructor that allows a message to be supplied. It is thrown by the constructor of the Polynomialclass should the supplied string contain coefficients or exponents of an improper type or should the exponents fail to be listed in strictly descending order. The third class is OrderedList, which is a utility class that contains two overloaded implementations of a method named checkSorted, which determineswhether a Listobject, supplied as a parameter, is in strictly ascending order. Both methods should be class (static) methods. The firstof the overloaded methods should accept alist that containselements that implement Comparable. 
The second should instead be suppliedan additional parameter that is an object of a class that implements the Comparatorinterface. Refer to the signatures of the two sortmethods in the predefined Java Collectionsclass as a model for how these two methods should be defined. Do not duplicate code, but insteadensure that first overloaded method calls the second..The fourth outer class is the class that contains the main method. The main method should allowthe user to select the input file from the default directory by using an object of the JFileChooserclass. It should then 
populate an ArrayListofobjects of typePolynomialas it reads in the lines of the file. As the polynomials are read in, they should also be displayed in the format provided by the toStringmethod. Should the InvalidPolynomialSyntaxexception be thrown, it should be caught and a JOptionPanemessage shouldbe displayed containing the reason for the invalid syntax. The list of polynomials should be then checked to see whether it is in sorted order according to two orderings. The first check is the one that uses the compareTomethod of the Polynomialclass. We refer to this first ordering as the strong order. The second results from the use of a comparator. We refer to it asthe weak order. 
It should display whether it fails to be sorted by either of both of the two orderingsor if it is sorted according to both.Inside themain class, a named lambda expessionshould be defined that implements the Comparatorinterface. Its comparemethod should consider only the exponents and not the coefficients in comparing the polynomials, much like how functions are categorized by Big-O.As an example, consider the following listof polynomials:4.0x3+ 2.5x+ 8.05.0x4+ 5.04.5x4+ 5.7x2+ 8.6This listfailsto be sorted by the strong order that considers both the coefficients and exponents because the third polynomialis less than the second because of the coefficients on the x4terms. The coefficient on that term in the second polynomial is 5.0, which is greater than 4.5, the coefficient on the corresponding term in the thirdpolynomial.They are sorted by the weak order that considers only the exponents, however. The third polynomial is greater than the second because the third has a x2term and the second one does not.
